
When continuing the work of other translators, it can be hard to keep your 
translations consistent with what's already there.

These tips will help you stay consistent with existing translations:


Tip: Sorting

  Sort by 'Key' in Xcloc Editor to group related translations together.

  Read the related translations above and below the one you're editing, and
  keep your new translation consistent with the existing ones.
  (Or update the existing translations to match your new translation.)

  Exception: In the 'Main' file, sort by 'Comment' instead of 'Key' to group 
  related translations together.


Tip: Searching

  Use the search function to see how a term has been translated elsewhere.

  For example, if you're translating the term 'Spaces' (the macOS virtual 
  desktop feature), you'd want to see how 'Space' / 'Spaces' is translated
  elsewhere in the app.

  In Xcloc Editor, you could find all translations for 'Space' and 'Spaces' like this:

    1. Go to 'All Project Files' (Command-J)
    2. Select the search-field (Command-F)
    3. Enter 'space'

  Now you can see all occurrences and translations for 'Space' and 'Spaces'.


Pro Tip: Regular Expression Search (OPTIONAL)

  You can highlight all occurrences of an English term AND its translation
  at the same time using Regular Expressions:

    1. Turn on Regular Expressions (Command-Option-R) 
    2. Use a search like:  double click|doppelklicken
       (English term and translation separated by '|')

  Now all occurrences of 'double click' AND the translation 'doppelklicken' 
  will be highlighted, helping you spot whether the translations are consistent.

  Caution: 
    Once you're done, remember to turn off Regular Expressions
    by pressing Command-Option-R again. 
    Otherwise, some searches won't work as expected,
    because some characters like '|' and '*' have special 
    meaning.

    To search a special character without turning off 
    Regular Expressions, include a backslash '\' before
    the special character.
    For example, search for 'Click and \*Drag\*'
    to find the text 'Click and *Drag*'
    while Regular Expressions are turned on.

---


Notes to self: 

  - The sorting tip is based on 1TU-wL-skT.title [Jan 2026]
  - The search tips are based on questions.click-delay.body [Jan 2026]
  - Some of these tips are redundant with the 'Pro Tips:' from translation_guide.md [Jan 2026]
  - Will the "Regular Expression Search" section just be tuned out or even scare off translators? 
      Is the complexity worth it to include here? [Jan 2026]